Madera Canyon. Stephan's riffle beetle is no longer found at the Bog Springs Campground location, as the habitat there no longer exists. Stephan's riffle beetle has not been collected or documented since 1993, despite the Service's surveying for the species at the one remaining known location, Sylvester Spring, and at numerous other nearby locations with potential habitat. Based on our review of the best available scientific and commercial information, we believe that the Stephan's riffle beetle is extinct.

The preponderance of Stephan's riffle beetle specimens have been documented in artificial habitat created by a water tank's leaking pipeline and overflow at the Bog Springs Campground. Only two specimens have ever been documented from Sylvester Spring, the only relatively intact spring habitat remaining where the species was known to exist. Historically, Stephan's riffle beetle may have only occupied Sylvester and Bog Springs, and populations may have started declining when water from springs in Madera Canyon was first captured in concrete boxes and piped to divert water for domestic and recreational water supplies. Up until 1993, when Stephan's riffle beetle was last detected, the species appears to have existed only in extremely low numbers within Sylvester Spring, making it very difficult to detect, in contrast to the relatively large numbers collected in 1979 at the Bog Springs Campground site. The species has not been documented as extant since 1993, 23 years ago, when one individual was found at Sylvester Spring as part of a specific effort to survey for Stephan's riffle beetle in Madera Canyon.

Beginning in 2012, the Service surveyed Sylvester Spring, the one remaining known population location for Stephan's riffle beetle, and seven other locations with potential habitat on multiple occasions. The most intensive survey efforts occurred at Sylvester Spring and Bog Springs, the water source for the extirpated Bog Springs Campground population. Three different survey methods were used in an effort to find the species, and no Stephan's riffle beetles were found. While Stephan's riffle beetle is small in size (and therefore difficult to find), adult beetles, if present, should be detected regardless of the time of year surveyed based on their life history (multi-year metamorphosis and relatively long life span). Therefore, based on the best available scientific and commercial information, the Service believes Stephan's riffle beetle to be extinct.

## Summary of Status Review

The SSA Report for Stephan's riffle beetle is a summary of the information assembled and reviewed by the Service and incorporates the best available scientific and commercial information for this species. Our analysis leads us to believe Stephan's riffle beetle is extinct. Species extinction is difficult, if not impossible, to prove, and the Service has no policy specifically defining the level of information necessary to conclude that a species should be considered extinct. For any species there is uncertainty in drawing a conclusion of extinction. For the Stephan's riffle beetle, we have carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the current status of the species. The biological information we reviewed and analyzed as the basis for our findings is documented in the SSA Report. Our analysis of this information found that there has been no confirmation of the existence of the Stephan's riffle beetle in more than 23 years, despite multiple survey efforts since 2012 in known and potential habitat where other riffle beetles were documented, across multiple seasons, and using a variety of survey methods. The type locality consisting of a leaking pipeline to a water storage tank, where the largest number of Stephan's riffle beetle was collected, no longer exists. The Service surveyed the only remaining site at which Stephan's riffle beetle had been documented, Sylvester Spring, on numerous occasions with different survey methods. Despite these efforts, we have been unable to confirm the existence of the species.

## Finding

Our review of the best available scientific and commercial information leads us to believe that the Stephan's riffle beetle is extinct, and, as such, it is not eligible for listing as an endangered or threatened species under the Act. Although the Act does not directly address the situation of considering a species for listing where the best available information indicates that the species is likely already extinct, the purpose of the Act is to prevent species from becoming extinct. If we believe the species is already extinct, by definition, the species cannot be in danger of, or likely to become in danger of, extinction. Therefore, we did not further evaluate whether Stephan's riffle beetle is in danger of extinction throughout its range (an endangered species), is likely to become in danger of extinction throughout its range in the foreseeable future (a threatened species), or is an
endangered or threatened species in a significant portion of its range. We find that listing Stephan's riffle beetle as an endangered or a threatened species under the Act is not warranted throughout all or a significant portion of its range, and consequently we are removing it from candidate status.

As a result of the Service's 2011 multilistinct litigation settlement with the Center for Biological Diversity and WildEarth Guardians, the Service is required to submit a proposed listing rule or a not-warranted 12-month finding to the Federal Register by September 30, 2016 (In re: Endangered Species Act Section 4 Deadline Litigation, No. 10-377 (EGS), MDL Docket No. 2165 (D.D.C. May 10, 2011)), for all 251 species that were included as candidate species in the Service's November 10, 2010, CNOR. This document satisfies the requirements of that settlement agreement for the Stephan's riffle beetle and constitutes the Service's 12-month finding on the May 4, 2004, petition to list the Stephan's riffle beetle as an endangered or threatened species. A detailed discussion of the basis for this finding can be found in the Stephan's riffle beetle's species-specific assessment form, SSA Report, and other supporting documents (see ADDRESSES, above).

## New Information

We request that you submit any new information concerning the taxonomy, biology, ecology, status of, or stressors to the Houchoca-Canelo population of the Arizona treebog, the Arkansas darter, black mudalia, Highlands tiger beetle, Dichanthelium (vannicum) hirstii (Hirst Brothers' panic grass), two Kentucky cave beetles (Louisville cave beetle and Tatum Cave beetle), relict leopard frog, sicklefin redhorse sucker, and Stephan's riffle beetle to the appropriate person, as specified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT, whenever it becomes available. New information will help us monitor these species and encourage their conservation. We encourage local agencies and stakeholders to continue cooperative monitoring and conservation efforts for these species. If an emergency situation develops for any of these species, we will act to provide immediate protection.

## References Cited

Lists of the references cited in the petition findings are available on the Internet at http://www.regulations.gov and upon request from the appropriate person, as specified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT.