the Ely District Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan (ROD/RMP), dated August 20, 2008, as referenced in the Lands and Realty objectives LR-8, page 66, LR-11, page 67, and Appendix B. Disposal of the parcels will be conducted consistent with Section 203 of FLPMA; Public Law 108-424, the Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2004 (LCCRDA); and Public Law 109-432, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, Title III-White Pine County Conservation, Recreation and County Conservation, Recreation and Development Act (WPCCRDA). These parcels are not required for any other Federal purposes, and their disposal would be in the public interest and meet the intent of the WPCCRDA.

The WPCCRDA (Pub. L. 109-432), section 311(b)(1), provides that Federal land described in subsection (a) of that Act is withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the public land laws and mining laws; all minerals will be retained by the Federal Government. A Mineral Potential Report was completed on June 7, 2013. A Finding of No Significant Impact and Decision Record, dated September 12, 2019, were completed in connection with this notice of realty action.

According to the LCCRDA (Pub. L. 108-424), section 102(g), lands identified within the Ely Resource Management Plan are withdrawn from location and entry under the mining laws and from operation under the mineral and geothermal leasing laws until such time as the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) terminates the withdrawal or the lands are patented.

In accordance with the LCCRDA and WPCCRDA, 85 percent of the funds generated by this sale will be used for archaeological resources, natural resource protection, recreation and wilderness planning, and other opportunities to Lincoln and White Pine County respectively. Additionally, five percent of the revenue will go to the State of Nevada General Education Fund and 10 percent of the revenue will go to Lincoln or White Pine County respectively.

The following National Environmental Policy Act documents apply to this proposed land sale. Separate environmental assessments were prepared for the parcels in each county. The Lincoln County parcels are analyzed in DOI-BLM-NV-L030-2015-0027-EA (https://eplanning.blm.gov/ eplanning-ui/project/56542/510) and DOI-BLM-NV-L030-2015-0026-EA (https://eplanning.blm.gov/eplanningui/project/72496/510). The White Pine

County parcels are analyzed in DOI-BLM-NV-L060-2018-0002-EA (https:// eplanning.blm.gov/eplanning-ui/ project/104342/510).

Submit comments to the address in the ADDRESSES section. Before including your address, phone number, email address, or other personally identifiable information in your comment, you should be aware that your entire comment-including any personally identifiable information-may be made publicly available at any time. While you can ask us in your comment to withhold your personally identifiable information from public review, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so.

Any comments regarding the proposed sale will be reviewed by the BLM Ely District Office Manager, who may sustain, vacate, or modify this realty action in response to such comments. In the absence of timely adverse comments, this realty action will become the final determination of the Department of the Interior. The use of the modified competitive sale method is consistent with 43 CFR 2711.3-2. Public lands may be offered for sale by modified competitive bidding procedures when the authorized officer determines it is necessary based on public policies. Consistent with Executive Order 14008, Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad, utilizing an online (internet-based) auction format would maximize the opportunity for public involvement while reducing greenhouse gas emissions that would result from bidders traveling to Ely. In addition, utilizing an online auction would encourage greater participation by qualified bidders.

The regulations at 43 CFR 2711.2 require that qualified conveyees (bidders) must be:
(1) A citizen of the United States 18 years of age or older;
(2) A corporation subject to the laws of any State or of the United States;
(3) A State, State instrumentality, or political subdivision authorized to hold property; or
(4) An entity legally capable of conveying and holding lands or interests therein under the laws of the State of Nevada.

The successful bidder must submit proof of citizenship or articles of incorporation within thirty (30) days from receipt of the acceptance of bid letter. Evidence of United States citizenship is a birth certificate, passport, or naturalization papers. Citizenship documents or articles of incorporation (as applicable) must be
provided to the BLM EYDO for each sale.

The EnergyNet auction website is viewable by the public in real-time; however, you must register as a bidder with EnergyNet in advance to submit bids for a parcel during the auction. The online auction website will be active and available for use approximately ten (10) days after the date of this notice and will remain available for viewing until the completion of the auction. The available parcels in this notice will be listed in detail on the EnergyNet website. Interested parties may visit the website at any time.

Potential bidders are encouraged to visit the EnergyNet website at least ten (10) business days prior to the start of the open bidding period to review the bidding instructions available at https:// www.energynet.com/page/Government Listings Participation. Supporting documentation is available on the EnergyNet website to familiarize users to the bidding process and answer frequently asked questions.

Potential bidders may register for the online auction as soon as the auction website is active. To participate in the BLM bidding process, you must register with EnergyNet and obtain a bidder number. Registration for online bidding will be available prior to the sale date on the EnergyNet website at https:// www.EnergyNet.com/govt listing.pl. Click on the orange "Register for Sale" button on the blue "Ely District 2024 Land Sale" banner to register. Then click on the light blue "View Listings" button on the "Ely District 2024 Land Sale" banner to obtain maps and get information on how to submit online bids via the internet for the sale. A submitted online internet bid is a binding offer to purchase.

To participate in this sale, prospective buyers must create an EnergyNet account, complete the EnergyNet Bidding Terms Agreement, request a bid allowance, and register for the Ely District 2024 Land Sale. EnergyNet may require approximately five (5) business days to determine the bidder's financial qualifications. Additional information on how to register with EnergyNet may be found at https://www.energynet.com/ page/Government Listings Participation.

Assistance with creating an EnergyNet account and registering for the sale is available by contacting the EnergyNet Government Resources Department at 877-351-4488. Use the following link to create a Buyer's Account: https:// www.EnergyNet.com/bidder reg.pl?registration choice=government. After the account is created, follow the link "Submit Bank Information Online"