Resources Commission, Duke Energy Carolinas, Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, Tennessee Valley Authority, and Georgia Department of Natural Resources. A primary goal of the CCA is to expand the range of this species upstream of barrier dams to repopulate stream reaches that were formerly degraded, but currently appear suitable. Expanding the range of the sicklefin redhorse sucker into the upper sections of these watersheds will provide a greater variety of available habitat, allowing the species to more easily adjust to temporary effects of construction and landscape alteration, and providing more opportunities to use areas of refuge during periods of adverse conditions, such as periods of high temperature or increased flow. Accessibility to more suitable habitat will increase the number of available spawning sites, increasing the opportunities for successful recruitment, and will provide alternative spawning areas should some spawning sites become unsuitable. Successful reintroduction will increase the carrying capacity of the sicklefin redhorse sucker by providing the species with additional riverine habitat as well as access to additional reservoirs to serve as juvenile rearing habitat. The SSA Report for the sicklefin redhorse sucker noted that threats (i.e., factors affecting the species) could be exacerbated by climate change or interaction among the threats. However, the SSA Report's evaluation of all of the threats facing this species indicates that the existing populations are stable and are likely to remain stable in most of the plausible future scenarios. In addition, while populations are currently stable and likely to remain so, under the CCA's management framework, the parties will work collaboratively to address threats in a way that reduces the likelihood that they will negatively affect the future viability of the species.

## Finding

Based on our review of the best available scientific and commercial information pertaining to the Act's five threat factors, we find that the stressors acting on the species and its habitat, either singly or in combination, are not of sufficient imminence, intensity, or magnitude to indicate that the sicklefin redhorse sucker is in danger of extinction (an endangered species), or likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future (a threatened species), throughout all of its range. This finding is based on stability of existing populations, re-evaluation of threats that are likely to affect the populations in the future, and development of a CCA
that ensures the continued participation by all stakeholders in a focused effort to address and mitigate potential threats while expanding the range and population health of the species. Additionally, we evaluated the current range of the sicklefin redhorse sucker to determine if there is any apparent geographic concentration of potential threats for the species. The current range of the species is relatively small and limited to two river systems in western North Carolina and northwestern Georgia. We examined potential threats from: (1) Hydroelectric operations, inadequate erosion/ sedimentation control during agricultural, timbering, and construction activities; (2) runoff and discharge of organic and inorganic pollutants from industrial, municipal, agricultural, and other point and nonpoint sources; (3) habitat alterations associated with channelization and instream dredging/ mixing activities; (4) predation and habitat suitability impacts by nonnative species; (5) fragmentation and isolation of surviving populations; and (6) other natural and human-related factors that adversely modify the aquatic environment. We found no portions of the species' range where potential threats are significantly concentrated or substantially greater than in other portion of its range so as to suggest that the species may be in danger of extinction in a portion of its range. Therefore, we find that factors affecting the sicklefin redhorse sucker are essentially uniform throughout its range, indicating no portion of the range warrants further consideration of possible endangered or threatened status under the Act. Therefore, we find that listing the sicklefin redhorse sucker as an endangered or a threatened species under the Act is not warranted throughout all or a significant portion of its range at this time, and consequently we are removing it from candidate status.

As a result of the Service's 2011 multidistrict litigation settlement with the Center for Biological Diversity and WildEarth Guardians, the Service is required to submit a proposed listing rule or a not-warranted 12-month finding to the Federal Register by September 30, 2016 [In re: Endangered Species Act Section 4 Deadline Litigation, No. 10-377 (EUS), MDL Docket No. 2165 (D.D.C. May 10, 2011)], for all 251 species that were included as candidate species in the Service's November 10, 2010, CNOR. This document satisfies the requirements of that settlement agreement for the sicklefin redhorse sucker, and
constitutes the Service's 12-month finding on the April 20, 2010, petition to list the sicklefin redhorse sucker as an endangered or threatened species. A detailed discussion of the basis for this finding, including the PICK policy analysis of the CCA, can be found in the sicklefin redhorse sucker's speciesspecific assessment form, SSA Report, and other supporting documents (see ADDRESSES, above).

## Stephan's Riffle Beetle (Heterelmis stephani)

## Previous Federal Actions

Stephan's riffle beetle (Heterelmis stephani) was designated as a Category 2 candidate in the notice published in the Federal Register on May 22, 1984, at 49 FR 21664, Category 2 candidate species were identified as those taxa for which the Service possessed information indicating proposing to list the taxa was possibly appropriate, but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threats sufficient to support a proposed listing rule was lacking. The February 28, 1996, CNOR (61 FR 7596) discontinued recognition of categories, so this species was no longer considered a candidate species. In the June 13, 2002, CNOR (67 FR 40657), Stephan's riffle beetle was designated as a candidate species as currently defined, with an LPN of 5. On May 11, 2004, we received a petition dated May 4, 2004, from the Center for Biological Diversity, requesting that 225 plants and animals, including Stephan's riffle beetle, be listed as endangered species under the Act and critical habitat be designated. In response to the May 4, 2004, petition to list Stephan's riffle beetle as an endangered species, we published a warranted-butprecluded 12-month finding in the Federal Register on May 11, 2005 (70 FR 24870). Subsequent warranted-butprecluded 12-month findings were published on September 12, 2006 (71 FR 53756), December 6, 2007 (72 FR 69034), December 10, 2008 (73 FR 75176), November 9, 2009 (74 FR 57804), November 10, 2010 (75 FR 69222), October 26, 2011 (76 FR 66370), November 21, 2012 (77 FR 69994), November 22, 2013 (78 FR 70104), December 5, 2014 (79 FR 72450), and December 24, 2015 (80 FR 80584).

## Background

Stephan's riffle beetle is one of five known species in the genus Heterelmis found in the United States. Historically, Stephan's riffle beetle occurred in Santa Cruz and Pima Counties, Arizona, at two known locations: Bog Springs Campground and Sylvester Spring in