# Mifepristone inhibits non-small cell lung carcinoma cellular escape from DNA damaging cisplatin 

Heather E. Kapperman ${ }^{2,3}$, Alicia A. Goyeneche ${ }^{1}$ and Carlos M. Telleria ${ }^{1 *}$ (D)


#### Abstract

Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths in the world. The major histopathological subtype of lung cancer is non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Platinum-based therapy is the standard of care for patients with advanced stage NSCLC. However, even with treatment, most patients will die of this disease within 5 years and most of these deaths are due to recurrence. One strategy to inhibit recurrence is to use cytostatic compounds following courses of lethal chemotherapy. We have shown in various cancer cell types that mifepristone (MF), an anti-progestin/ anti-glucocorticoid, is a powerful cytostatic anti-cancer agent. Thus, in this work we tested the hypothesis that MF should be efficacious in inducing cytostasis and preventing repopulation of NSCLC following cisplatin (CDDP) therapy.


Methods: We established an in vitro approach wherein human NSCLC cells with different genetic backgrounds and sensitivities to CDDP (A549 and H23) were exposed to rounds of lethal concentrations of CDDP for 1 h followed or not by MF monotherapy. Every 2 days, cell number, cell viability, and colony-forming ability of viable cells were studied.
Results: CDDP killed the majority of cells, yet there were remnant cells escaping CDDP lethality and repopulating the culture, as evidenced by the improved clonogenic survival of viable cells. In contrast, when cells exposed to CDDP where further treated with MF following CDDP removal, their number and clonogenic capacity were reduced drastically.
Conclusion: This study reports that there is repopulation of NSCLC cells following a lethal concentration of CDDP monotherapy, that NSCLC cells are sensitive to the growth inhibition properties of MF, and that MF abrogates the repopulation of NSCLC cells following CDDP therapy. Our study supports further evaluating MF as an adjuvant therapy for NSCLC.
Keywords: Lung cancer, Mifepristone, Cisplatin, Cell repopulation, Chemotherapy, Clonogenic survival

## Background

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide [1]. The most common histopathological subtype accounting for about $85 \%$ cases is non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) [2]. Despite during the past two decades there have been advances in early detection and in the development of targeted therapies that improved

[^0]prognosis following standard of care with platinating agents, the overall survival rates from NSCLC are still very low; the high mortality of this disease is consequence of the presence of metastases at the time of diagnosis in most patients [3]. Consequently, new drugs and combination therapies are desperately needed to improve the outcome of this fatal cancer.

Mifepristone (MF) is a well-known synthetic steroid that has been approved to be used as antiprogestin in reproductive medicine when blockage of progesterone action is needed, and as antiglucocorticoid to prevent the hyperglycemia associated to Cushing's disease [4]. However, several studies have shown MF to be useful


[^0]:    *Correspondence: carlos.telleria@mcgill.ca
    ${ }^{1}$ Experimental Pathology Unit, Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, 3775 University Street, Montreal, QC H3A 2B4, Canada
    Full list of author information is available at the end of the article