# Strategic plays for the future 

GIVEN the transformation of industry structure and dynamics under way, suppliers will likely need to consider how well their portfolio of businesses is positioned to address the transition. That could require simultaneously assessing volume and commoditization risks to certain parts of their portfolio, while thinking through investments potentially required to monetize new opportunities in other parts of their portfolio. Key choices they face could include where to embrace new business models and offerings, whether to innovate into new product segments, and how to create and sustain advantage in the traditional parts and supply business given the market's changing competitive dynamics. In this section, we offer five potential plays for different types of businesses suppliers have in their portfolios. It is important to realize that these strategic plays are not mutually exclusive, nor are they "sequential strategies." Suppliers could make these choices simultaneously, and different strategies could apply to parts of their business portfolios.

Consider figure 3, starting on the x-axis. Supplier businesses in largely commoditized segments, where performance innovation in the future is likely to be minimal, may need to consider different strategic plays than suppliers that operate in businesses
with sustained, rich, consumer-driven innovation opportunities. From each starting point, suppliers can consider whether they want to achieve growth in the future from continued focus on sales of parts, or through new business models that potentially take them into new roles in the mobility ecosystem (moving upward on the $y$-axis).

Figure 3 illustrates the five potential strategic plays. Supplier businesses in more commoditized segments can make three potential plays: (a) win on cost and scale, (b) find a differentiated niche, and (c) go beyond the core of automotive supply into new business models. Those starting with businesses that today are driven heavily by differentiating performance innovation for which customers are willing to pay more face a core choice whether to remain traditional suppliers and (d)
lead performance innovation or (e) trailblaze into new mobility business models centered on differentiated offerings.

## Win on cost and scale

Some may choose to remain traditional suppliers to the major automotive manufacturers. For many parts and components that face commoditization,