<!-- PageNumber="69437" -->
<!-- PageHeader="Federal Register / Vol. 81, No. 194/Thursday, October 6, 2016/Rules and Regulations" -->

control crayfish, maintain habitat conditions by removing excess vegetation, and inform the public about the species.

NPS and BLM authorities and regulatory mechanisms have successfully provided or facilitated conservation of the species (see "Conservation Actions Implemented," above). NPS, BLM, BR, and the Service are signatories on the Conservation Agreement and actively involved in all actions of the Conservation Team. Each agency coordinates development of annual work plans and utilizes their authority to implement conservation actions that benefit the species. Federal authorities and regulatory mechanisms have successfully provided or facilitated conservation of the species.

We did not find any stressors examined under the Act's threat factors A, B, C, and E to rise to the level of a threat that would cause us to determine listing of the relict leopard frog is warranted. Based on our review of the stressors combined with the beneficial effects that the various conservation efforts and regulatory mechanisms provided to the species, we find that the existing regulatory mechanisms (Factor D) are adequate to address the stressors currently impacting the relict leopard frog and its habitat.

Regarding cumulative effects, there are potential stressors that may act together to affect relict leopard frogs at certain sites. Overgrowth of vegetation, nonnative plants and predators, and disease acting on small populations may adversely affect certain populations concurrently. Flash floods or wildfire may adversely affect a site at the same time as nonnative plants and predators. Reduced habitat connectivity adversely affects sites with small populations at the same time as overgrowth of vegetation, and nonnative plants and predators. Climate change may affect a site at the same time as grazing, wildfire, and flash floods. However, after evaluating the cumulative effects, we conclude that the magnitude of cumulative effects to the relict leopard frog is low to moderate. Most stressors adversely affect the relict leopard frog in a single geographic area due to the isolated distribution of most sites. Although individuals may be affected by cumulative effects in a single geographic area, there would not be population-level effects to the species.

Multiple stressors on relict leopard frogs may act synergistically, exacerbating effects greater than what may be observed by individual stressors. The effects of climate change may increase the number and frequency of wildfires and flash flood events. The presence of nonnative plants can make the effects of excess vegetation worse. Overgrowth of vegetation may reduce habitat for breeding, potentially making small populations smaller. Disease and nonnative predators such as bullfrogs, crayfish, and fishes may also exacerbate the effects of small populations by removing frogs. We determined that synergistic effects may occur, although they are expected to be low in magnitude. Most individual stressors adversely affect the relict leopard frog in a single geographic area, due to the isolated distribution of most sites. Although individuals may be affected by synergistic effects in a single geographic area, there would not likely be population-level effects to the species.

To minimize or mitigate effects from stressors affecting the relict leopard frog, the Conservation Team will continue monitoring populations and reintroducing frogs to sites should they become greatly reduced in numbers or extirpated due to the effects of one or more stressors.

# Finding

Based on our review of the best available scientific and commercial information pertaining to the Act's five threat factors, we find that the stressors acting on the species and its habitat, either singly or in combination, are not of sufficient imminence, intensity, or magnitude to indicate that the relict leopard frog is in danger of extinction (an endangered species) throughout all of its range, or likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future (a threatened species) throughout all of its range.

Populations of relict leopard frogs are improving due to past conservation actions and current efforts to re-establish and increase naturally-occurring and reintroduced populations. Current and ongoing habitat management, establishment of new sites, and restoration activities have made substantial progress since their inception and are continuing into the future. We have determined that the number of frogs and habitat conditions at individual sites change from year to year and may vary widely, but the rangewide status of the species is stable or increasing.

After determining the species is not endangered or threatened throughout all of its range, we then conducted an analysis to determine if it was endangered or threatened throughout a significant portion of the species' range. To do this, we evaluated whether there was any portion of the species' range where threats were concentrated such that the species in that portion would be endangered or threatened, and that losing that portion of the range would cause the remainder of the species to be endangered or threatened. Once we determined that there was no geographic concentration of threats that would cause any portion of the species' range to be at greater risk of extinction, then we could conclude that no portion warranted further consideration. Therefore, we find that listing the relict leopard frog as an endangered or a threatened species throughout all of or a significant portion of its range under the Act is not warranted at this time, and, consequently, we are removing it from candidate status.

As a result of the Service's 2011 multidistrict litigation settlement with the Center for Biological Diversity and WildEarth Guardians, the Service is required to submit a proposed listing rule or a not-warranted 12-month finding to the Federal Register by September 30, 2016 (In re: Endangered Species Act Section 4 Deadline Litigation, No. 10-377 (EGS), MDL Docket No. 2165 (D.D.C. May 10, 2011)), for all 251 species that were included as candidate species in the Service's November 10, 2010, CNOR. This document satisfies the requirements of that settlement agreement for the relict leopard frog, and constitutes the Service's 12-month finding on the May 8, 2002, petition to list the relict leopard frog as an endangered or threatened species. A detailed discussion of the basis for this finding, including the many effective conservation measures completed by the Conservation Team, can be found in the relict leopard frog's species-specific assessment form, SSA Report, and other supporting documents (see ADDRESSES, above).

# Sicklefin Redhorse Sucker (Moxostoma sp.)

## Previous Federal Actions

The sicklefin redhorse sucker was originally made a candidate species in the May 11, 2005, CNOR (70 FR 24870), and it was included in the subsequent CNORs through 2015 (see September 12, 2006 (71 FR 53756), December 6, 2007 (72 FR 69034), December 10, 2008 (73 FR 75176), November 9, 2009 (74 FR 57804), November 10, 2010 (75 FR 69222), October 26, 2011 (76 FR 66370), November 21, 2012 (77 FR 69994), November 22, 2013 (78 FR 70104), and December 5, 2014 (79 FR 72450)).

On April 20, 2010, we received a petition from the Center for Biological Diversity, requesting that the Service list 404 aquatic species as endangered or threatened species under the Act.