<!-- PageNumber="57164" -->
<!-- PageHeader="Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 134/Friday, July 12, 2024 / Notices" -->

and fill in the form with the following information:

- Bank name;
- Banker's name;
- Telephone number of banker;
- Address of bank;
- Requested bid allowance amount.

EnergyNet will verify that the bank is an accredited financial institution and contact the bank to ensure the prospective buyer has the financial means to cover the requested bid allowance. The bidder must contact its banker and grant permission for the banker to speak with EnergyNet about the bidder's bid allowance request. EnergyNet will not request the bidder's account balance nor ask any questions about assets or other lines of credit. EnergyNet will not request the bank account number, nor whether it can withdraw funds.

Payments to the BLM will not be made through EnergyNet. At the conclusion of the bidding period for the final parcel, the bidder with the highest accepted bid during the open auction period (winning bidder) for each parcel will be provided instructions via email by the online auction system on how to make the required payment to the BLM.

In addition, you will be required to pay a service fee to EnergyNet's broker of 1.5 percent of the highest qualifying bid for each parcel purchased by the successful bidder. EnergyNet will submit one invoice via email to each successful bidder for the total amount due to the BLM and a separate invoice for the amount due to EnergyNet's broker.

Bidding will begin at the established FMV of each parcel. Each parcel will have its own unique open bidding period, with start and stop times clearly identified on the auction website. The open bidding period for each parcel will run for 24 hours from start to finish, and only bids placed during this 24-hour period will be accepted. Bidding will close sequentially so that each bidder will know if it is the highest winning bid before subsequent parcels close. The website will display each current high bid, and the high bidder's number.

The online system allows participants to submit maximum bids, which is the highest amount a bidder is willing to pay for each parcel, to enable a bidder to participate in the online auction without having to be logged into the website at the time the auction period closes. The auction website provides a full explanation of placing maximum bids, as well as an explanation of how it works to place bids on your behalf to maintain your high bidder status up to the chosen maximum bid amount. The BLM strongly encourages potential bidders to review the bidding tutorial in the Frequently Asked Questions area on the auction website in advance of the sale. EnergyNet will declare the highest qualifying bid as the high bid. The successful bidder must submit a deposit of no less than 20 percent of the successful bid amount by 4:00 p.m., Pacific Time, immediately following the close of the sale in the form of a certified check, postal money order, electronic fund transfer, bank draft, or cashier's check made payable in U.S. dollars to the "Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management."

The BLM will send the successful bidder(s) an acceptance of bid letter with detailed information for making payment in full. In accordance with 43 CFR 2711.3-1(d), the successful bidder will forfeit the bid deposit if it fails to pay the full purchase price within 180 days of the sale. The BLM will make no exceptions. The BLM cannot accept the remainder of the bid price at any time following the 180th day after the sale.

If a bidder is the apparent successful bidder with respect to multiple parcels and that bidder fails to submit the minimum 20 percent bid deposit resulting in default on any single parcel following the sale, the BLM may cancel the sale of all parcels to that bidder. If a successful bidder cannot consummate the transaction for any reason, the BLM may consider the second highest bidder to purchase the parcel. If there are no acceptable bids, a parcel may remain available for sale on a future date without further legal notice.

The BLM EYDO must receive requests for escrow instructions a minimum of 30 business days prior to the prospective patentee's scheduled closing date. There are no exceptions.

All name changes and supporting documentation must be received at the BLM EYDO by 4:00 p.m. Pacific Time, 30 days from the date on the acceptance of bid letter. There are no exceptions. To submit a name change, the apparent successful bidder must submit the name change in writing on the Certificate of Eligibility form to the BLM EYDO.

The BLM must receive the remainder of the full bid price for the parcel no later than 4:00 p.m. Pacific Time, within 180 days following the day of the sale. The successful bidder must submit payment in the form of a certified check, postal money order, bank draft, cashier's check, or make available by electronic fund transfer payable in U.S. dollars to the "Department of the Interior-Bureau of Land Management" to the BLM EYDO. The BLM will not accept personal checks or other non-certified funds.

Arrangements for electronic fund transfer to the BLM for payment of the balance due must be made a minimum of two weeks prior to the payment date. The BLM will not sign any documents related to 1031 Exchange transactions. The bidder is responsible for timing for completion of such an exchange. The BLM cannot be a party to any 1031 Exchange.

In accordance with 43 CFR 2711.3-1(f), the BLM may accept or reject any or all offers to purchase or withdraw any parcel of land or interest therein from sale within 30 days, if the BLM authorized officer determines consummation of the sale would be inconsistent with any law, or for other reasons as may be provided by applicable law or regulations. No contractual or other rights against the United States may accrue until the BLM officially accepts the offer to purchase and the full bid price is paid.

Upon publication of this notice in the Federal Register, the described land will also be segregated from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining laws, except for the sale provisions of the FLPMA. Upon publication of this notice and until completion of this sale, the BLM will no longer accept land use applications affecting the parcels identified for sale. The parcels may be subject to land use applications received prior to publication of this notice if processing the application would have no adverse effect on the marketability of title or the FMV of the parcels. The segregative effect of this notice terminates upon issuance of a patent or other document of conveyance to such lands, or publication in the Federal Register of a termination of the segregation. The total segregation period may not exceed two years unless it is extended by the BLM Nevada State Director prior to the termination date in accordance with 43 CFR 2711.1-2(d).

Terms and Conditions: FLPMA Section 209, 43 U.S.C. 1719(a), states that "all conveyances of title issued by the Secretary... shall reserve to the United States all minerals in the lands." The patents, when issued, will contain a mineral reservation to the United States for all minerals.

In response to requests to clarify this mineral reservation as it relates to mineral materials, such as sand and gravel, we refer interested parties to the regulations at 43 CFR 3601.71(b), which provides that the owner of the surface estate of lands with reserved Federal minerals may "use a minimal amount of mineral materials" for "personal use" within the boundaries of the surface estate without a sales contract or permit.