<!-- PageNumber="47671" -->
<!-- PageHeader="Federal Register / Vol. 78, No. 151/ Tuesday, August 6, 2013/Notices" -->

Dated: August 1, 2013.

Gwellnar Banks,
Management Analyst, Office of the Chief
Information Officer.

[FR Doc. 2013-18932 Filed 8-5-13; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3510-22-P


# DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE


## Bureau of Economic Analysis


## Proposed Information Collection; Comment Request; Benchmark Survey of Insurance Transactions by U.S. Insurance Companies with Foreign Persons

AGENCY: Bureau of Economic Analysis,
Commerce.

ACTION: Notice.

SUMMARY: The Department of
Commerce, as part of its continuing
effort to reduce paperwork and
respondent burden, invites the general
public and other Federal agencies to
comment on proposed and/or
continuing information collections, as
required by the Paperwork Reduction
Act of 1995.

DATES: Written comments must be
submitted on or before October 7, 2013.
ADDRESSES: Direct all written comments
to Jennifer Jessup, Departmental
Paperwork Clearance Officer,
Department of Commerce, Room 6616,
14th and Constitution Avenue NW.,
Washington, DC 20230, or via email at
jjessup@doc.gov.


### FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

Direct requests for additional
information or copies of the survey and
instructions to Mark Xu, Chief, Special
Surveys Branch, Balance of Payments
Division, (BE-50), Bureau of Economic
Analysis, U.S. Department of
Commerce, Washington, DC 20230;
phone: (202) 606-9826; fax: (202) 606-
5318; or via email at mark.xu@bea.gov.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:


# I. Abstract

Form BE-140, Benchmark Survey of
Insurance Transactions by U.S.
Insurance Companies with Foreign
Persons, obtains annual data from all
U.S. insurance companies that engage in
the following international insurance
transactions: (1) Premiums earned on
reinsurance assumed from insurance
companies resident abroad; (2) losses
incurred on reinsurance assumed from
insurance companies resident abroad;
(3) premiums earned on primary
insurance sold to foreign persons; (4)
losses incurred on primary insurance
sold to foreign persons; (5) premiums
incurred on reinsurance ceded to

insurance companies resident abroad;
(6) losses recovered on reinsurance
ceded to insurance companies resident
abroad; (7) receipts for auxiliary
insurance services; and (8) payments for
auxiliary insurance services. In
addition, insurance companies with
transactions in at least one of the eight
categories listed above that exceed $2
million must supply country specific
data on the amount of their insurance
transactions for each category.

The data are needed to monitor U.S.
international trade in insurance
services, analyze its impact on the U.S.
economy and foreign economies,
compile and improve the U.S. economic
accounts, support U.S. commercial
policy on insurance services, conduct
trade promotion, and improve the
ability of U.S. businesses to identify and
evaluate market opportunities.

This survey is conducted at five year
intervals; it was last conducted for 2008
and will be conducted again for 2013.
The 2013 survey will be sent to
respondents on March 30, 2014 and
reports are due by June 30, 2014.

Two changes are proposed to the 2013
BE-140 form: (1) drop questions on
finite reinsurance because finite
reinsurance is a dated concept that is no
longer relevant, and (2) add questions to
identify the transaction code, size, type
and nature of large and irregular
transactions, defined as those contracts
with premiums ceded or assumed in
excess of $1 billion and that are at least
three times the size of a reporter's
average regular contract. The new
information will allow BEA to measure
more accurately insurance services on
an accrual basis and to exclude
transactions that are not related to
insurance services.


# II. Method of Collection

The surveys are sent to the
respondents by U.S. mail and are also
available from the BEA Web site.
Respondents may return the surveys one
of four ways: U.S. mail, electronically
using BEA's electronic collection system
(eFile), fax, or email.


## III. Data

OMB Control Number: 0608-0073.

Form Number: BE-140.

Type of Review: Regular submission.
Affected Public: Businesses or other
for-profit organizations.
Estimated Number of Responses:
1,700 total responses every five years.
Estimated Time per Response: 8
hours.

Estimated Total Annual Burden
Hours: 13,600 hours.

Estimated Total Annual Cost to
Public: $0.

Respondent's Obligation: Mandatory.

Authority: The International Investment
and Trade in Services Survey Act, 22 U.S.C.
3101-3108, as amended.


# IV. Request for Comments

Comments are invited on: (a) Whether
the proposed collection of information
is necessary for the proper performance
of the functions of the Agency,
including whether the information will
have practical utility; (b) the accuracy of
the Agency's estimate of the burden
(including hours and cost) of the
proposed collection of information; (c)
ways to enhance the quality, utility, and
clarity of the information to be
collected; and (d) ways to minimize the
burden of the collection of information
on respondents, including through the
use of automated collection techniques
or other forms of information
technology. Comments submitted in
response to this notice will be
summarized and/or included in the
request for OMB approval of this
information collection; they also will
become a matter of public record.

Dated: July 30, 2013.

Glenna Mickelson,
Management Analyst, Office of Chief
Information Officer.

[FR Doc. 2013-18879 Filed 8-5-13; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3510-06-P


# DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

International Trade Administration

[A-201-836, A-489-815, A-570-914, A-580-
859]

Final Results of Expedited Sunset
Reviews of Antidumping Duty Orders:
Light-Walled Rectangular Pipe and
Tube From Mexico, Turkey, the
People's Republic of China, and the
Republic of Korea

AGENCY: Import Administration,
International Trade Administration,
Department of Commerce.

SUMMARY: On April 2, 2013, the
Department of Commerce (the
Department) initiated the first sunset
reviews of the antidumping duty orders
on light-walled rectangular pipe and
tube (light-walled pipe and tube) from
the Mexico, Turkey, the People's
Republic of China (PRC), and the
Republic of Korea (Korea) 1 (collectively,

<!-- PageFooter="1 See Light-Walled Rectangular Pipe and Tube from Mexico, the People's Republic of Chine, and the Republic of Korea: Antidumping Duty Orders; Light-Walled Rectangular Pipe and Tube from the Republic of Korea: Notice of Amended Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, 73 FR 45403, 45405 [August 5, 2008]; Notice of" -->
<!-- PageFooter="Cantinuod" -->
```