<!-- PageNumber="69431" -->
<!-- PageHeader="Federal Register/ Vol. 81, No. 194/Thursday, October 6, 2016/Rules and Regulations" -->

We evaluated all known potential impacts to the Highlands tiger beetle, including the Act's five threat factors. While these impacts were previously believed to pose imminent or significant threats to the species, and some may have caused losses to individuals or habitat, the updated information we received regarding species' occurrence and population size has improved our understanding on how the stressors affect the status of species. In our current candidate assessment, we evaluated the best available scientific and commercial information, and concluded that the species is resilient to these stressors and that current impacts to the species are not as strong as previously believed. Approximately 43.4 percent of the existing potential suitable habitat for the species is protected conservation lands. While fragmentation of the Lake Wales Ridge scrub and sandhill habitats exists, 63 percent of the Highlands tiger beetle populations occur on these protected conservation lands, including three of the largest known populations. These lands are managed for the scrub habitat and species, including the Highlands tiger beetle, through government and private partnership prescribed burn programs, invasive species control, best management practices, and enforcement and protection of the resources. Fragmentation of the habitat was identified as a stressor compromising the dispersal capabilities of Highlands tiger beetle populations. However, the new information on the number and distribution of occupied sites and population size indicates that the threat to the dispersal capabilities of the species is not as high as previously reported. New sites have been identified in four populations across the north to south range of the species, and the Lake Wales Ridge as a whole has areas of open lands, remnant scrub and sandhill, and patchworks of scrub roadside habitat that can act as corridors or "stepping stones" for Highlands tiger beetle movement and flight, making active migration to new sites or the exchange of individuals between sites feasible for this species. In addition, storm winds, water flow, rafting transport, and animals are possible means of stochastic dispersal of individual beetles.

As a result of the new information and analysis, we no longer consider the threats originally identified in our previous 12-month finding for the Highlands tiger beetle to be current or foreseeable threats for the following reasons: (1) The species is larger in individual numbers and occurs in more sites across its range than previously documented; (2) the populations occur primarily on protected conservation lands; (3) more than half of the potential suitable habitat for the species consists of protected lands under conservation management, with new conservation lands and conservation banks acquired in 2014; (4) the species occurs in 16