<!-- PageHeader="Kapperman et al. Cancer Cell Int (2018) 18:185 https://doi.org/10.1186/s12935-018-0683-z" -->
<!-- PageHeader="Cancer Cell International" -->


# PRIMARY RESEARCH Open Access

CrossMark


## Mifepristone inhibits non-small cell lung carcinoma cellular escape from DNA damaging cisplatin

Heather E. Kapperman2,3, Alicia A. Goyeneche1 and Carlos M. Telleria1*ID


### Abstract

Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths in the world. The major histopathological subtype
of lung cancer is non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Platinum-based therapy is the standard of care for patients with
advanced stage NSCLC. However, even with treatment, most patients will die of this disease within 5 years and most
of these deaths are due to recurrence. One strategy to inhibit recurrence is to use cytostatic compounds following
courses of lethal chemotherapy. We have shown in various cancer cell types that mifepristone (MF), an anti-progestin/
anti-glucocorticoid, is a powerful cytostatic anti-cancer agent. Thus, in this work we tested the hypothesis that MF
should be efficacious in inducing cytostasis and preventing repopulation of NSCLC following cisplatin (CDDP) therapy.

Methods: We established an in vitro approach wherein human NSCLC cells with different genetic backgrounds and
sensitivities to CDDP (A549 and H23) were exposed to rounds of lethal concentrations of CDDP for 1h followed or not
by MF monotherapy. Every 2 days, cell number, cell viability, and colony-forming ability of viable cells were studied.

Results: CDDP killed the majority of cells, yet there were remnant cells escaping CDDP lethality and repopulat-
ing the culture, as evidenced by the improved clonogenic survival of viable cells. In contrast, when cells exposed to
CDDP were further treated with MF following CDDP removal, their number and clonogenic capacity were reduced
drastically.

Conclusion: This study reports that there is repopulation of NSCLC cells following a lethal concentration of CDDP
monotherapy, that NSCLC cells are sensitive to the growth inhibition properties of MF, and that MF abrogates the
repopulation of NSCLC cells following CDDP therapy. Our study supports further evaluating MF as an adjuvant
therapy for NSCLC.

Keywords: Lung cancer, Mifepristone, Cisplatin, Cell repopulation, Chemotherapy, Clonogenic survival


### Background

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death world-
wide [1]. The most common histopathological subtype
accounting for about 85% cases is non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) [2]. Despite during the past two dec-
ades there have been advances in early detection and
in the development of targeted therapies that improved

prognosis following standard of care with platinating
agents, the overall survival rates from NSCLC are still
very low; the high mortality of this disease is conse-
quence of the presence of metastases at the time of diag-
nosis in most patients [3]. Consequently, new drugs and
combination therapies are desperately needed to improve
the outcome of this fatal cancer.

Mifepristone (MF) is a well-known synthetic steroid
that has been approved to be used as antiprogestin in
reproductive medicine when blockage of progesterone
action is needed, and as antiglucocorticoid to prevent
the hyperglycemia associated to Cushing's disease [4].
However, several studies have shown MF to be useful

<!-- PageFooter="*Correspondence: carlos.telleria@mcgill.ca" -->
<!-- PageFooter="1 Experimental Pathology Unit, Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, 3775 University Street, Montreal, QC H3A 2B4, Canada" -->
<!-- PageFooter="Full list of author information is available at the end of the article" -->

BMC

<!-- PageFooter="© The Author(s) 2018. This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver (http://creativecommons.org/ publicdomain/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated." -->
```