<!-- PageHeader="71984" -->
<!-- PageHeader="Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 233/Thursday, December 4, 2014/Notices" -->

• Individual vessel owners must
bring a copy of the appropriate
swordfish and/or shark permit(s), a copy
of the vessel registration or
documentation, and proof of
identification.

. Representatives of a business-
owned or co-owned vessel must bring
proof that the individual is an agent of
the business (such as articles of
incorporation), a copy of the applicable
swordfish and/or shark permit(s), and
proof of identification.

. Vessel operators must bring proof of
identification.


# Workshop Objectives

The Protected Species Safe Handling,
Release, and Identification Workshops
are designed to teach longline and
gillnet fishermen the required
techniques for the safe handling and
release of entangled and/or hooked
protected species, such as sea turtles,
marine mammals, and smalltooth
sawfish. In an effort to improve
reporting, the proper identification of
protected species will also be taught at
these workshops. Additionally,
individuals attending these workshops
will gain a better understanding of the
requirements for participating in these
fisheries. The overall goal of these
workshops is to provide participants
with the skills needed to reduce the
mortality of protected species, which
may prevent additional regulations on
these fisheries in the future.

Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.
Dated: December 1, 2014.
Emily H. Menashes,
Acting Director, Office of Sustainable
Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service.
FR Doc. 2014-28502 Filed 12-3-14; 8.45 aml
BILLING CODE 3510-22-P


# BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION

[Docket No. CFPB-2014-0032]


# Agency Information Collection Activities: Comment Request

AGENCY: Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection.
ACTION: Notice and request for comment.

SUMMARY: In accordance with the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
(PRA), the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau {Bureau) is proposing
a new information collection titled,
"CFPB'S Consumer Complaint Intake
System Company Portal Boarding Form
Information Collection System."

DATES: Written comments are
encouraged and must be received on or

before February 2, 2015 to be assured of
consideration.

ADDRESSES: You may submit comments,
identified by the title of the information
collection, OMB Control Number [see
below), and docket number [see above].
by any of the following methods:

. Electronic: http://

www.regulations.gov. Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

. Mail: Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau (Attention: PRA
Office), 1700 G Street NW., Washington.
DC 20552.

. Hand Delivery/Courier: Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau (Attention:
PRA Office], 1275 First Street NE.,
Washington. DC 20002.

Please note that comments submitted
after the comment period will not be
accepted. In general, all comments
received will become public records,
including any personal information
provided. Sensitive personal
information, such as account numbers
or social security numbers, should not
be included.


## FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

Documentation prepared in support of
this information collection request is
available at www.regulations.gov.
Requests for additional information
should be directed to the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, (Attention:
PRA Office), 1700 G Street NW.,
Washington, DCC 20552, (202) 435-9575,
or email: PRA@cfpb.gov. Please do not
submit comments to this mailbox.


## SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Title of Collection: CFPB'S Consumer
Complaint Intake System Company
Portal Boarding Form Information
Collection System.

OMB Control Number: 3170-XXXX.

Type of Review: New collection
[Request for a new OMB control
number.

Affected Public: Private sector.

Estimated Number of Respondents:

50,000.

Estimated Total Annual Burden
Hours: 12,500.

Abstract: The Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act,
Public Law 111-203, Title X, provides
for the Bureau's consumer complaint
handling function. Among other things,
the Bureau is to facilitate the centralized
collection of, monitoring of, and
response to complaints concerning
consumer financial products and
services. The support the appropriate
routing of complaints to the companies
that are the subjects of the complaints,
the Bureau is developing a form which
will allow companies to proactively
participate in the Bureau's Company
Portal (Company Portal), a secure, Web-

based interface between the Bureau's
Office of Consumer Response
[Consumer Response] and companies.
The Company Portal allows companies
to view and respond to complaints
submitted through the Bureau's
complaint handling system. Many
companies have sought to register with
the Company Portal before consumer
complaints have been submitted to the
Bureau about their companies to ensure
early notice of potential complaints and
allow companies' users to acclimate to
the software and security protocols
needed to access the Company Portal.
The Bureau's proposed form, the
Company Portal Boarding Form
{Boarding Form}, will serve to
streamline information collection from
these companies, result in a greatly
enhanced and efficient experience from
both the consumers and companies'
perspectives.

Request for Comments: Comments are
invited on: (a) Whether the collection of
information is necessary for the proper
performance of the functions of the
Bureau, including whether the
information will have practical utility;
{b} The accuracy of the Bureau's
estimate of the burden of the collection
of information, including the validity of
the methods and the assumptions used:
(c) Ways to enhance the quality, utility,
and clarity of the information to be
collected; and (d) Ways to minimize the
burden of the collection of information
on respondents, including through the
use of automated collection techniques
or other forms of information
technology. Comments submitted in
response to this notice will be
summarized and/or included in the
request for Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) approval. All comments
will become a matter of public record.

Dated: November 19, 2014.

Nellisha Ramdass,

Acting Chief Information Officer, Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection.
(FR Doc. 2014-28511 Filed 12-3-14: 8:45 am)
BILLING CODE 4810-AM-P


# DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

Bonneville Power Administration

[BPA File No.: BP-16]

Fiscal Year (FY) 2016-2017 Proposed
Power and Transmission Rate
Adjustments Public Hearing and
Opportunities for Public Review and
Comment

AGENCY: Bonneville Power
Administration (BPA or Bonneville).
Department of Energy (DOE).
