<!-- PageHeader="47670" -->


# Notices

Federal Register
Vol. 78, No. 151
Tuesday, August 6, 2013

This section of the FEDERAL REGISTER
contains documents other than rules or
proposed rules that are applicable to the
public. Notices of hearings and investigations,
committee meetings, agency decisions and
rulings, delegations of authority, filing of
petitions and applications and agency
statements of organization and functions are
examples of documents appearing in this
section.


## COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS

Agenda and Notice of Public Meeting
of the Oregon Advisory Committee

Notice is hereby given, pursuant to
the provisions of the rules and
regulations of the U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights (Commission) and the
Federal Advisory Committee Act
(FACA) that the Oregon Advisory
Committee (Committee) will meet on
Thursday, August 22, 2013. The meeting
will convene at 2:00 p.m. and adjourn
at approximately 4:00 p.m. The meeting
will be held at the Hillsdale Library,
1525 SW Sunset Boulevard, Portland,
OR 97329. The purpose of the meeting
is for the Committee to plan future
activities.

The meeting is open to the public.
and members of the public are entitled
to submit written comments. Written
comments may be mailed to the Western
Regional Office, U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights, 300 N Los Angeles St.,
Suite 2010, Los Angeles, CA, 90012.
They may also be faxed to the
Commission at (213) 894-0507 or
emailed to the Commission at
atrevino@uscer.gov. Submitted
comments must be received by
September 30, 2013. Persons who desire
additional information may contact the
Western Regional Office at (213) 894-
3437.

Hearing-impaired persons who will
attend the meeting and require the
services of a sign language interpreter
should contact the Western Regional
Office at least ten (10) working days
before the scheduled date of the
meeting.

Records generated from this meeting
may be inspected and reproduced at the
Western Regional Office, as they become
available, both before and after the
meeting. Persons interested in the work
of this Committee are directed to the
Commission's Web site, http://
www.uscer.gov. or may contact the

Western Regional Office at the above
email or street address.

The meeting will be conducted
pursuant to the rules and regulations of
the Commission and FACA.

Dated in Chicago, 11, July 31, 2013.
David Mussatt.
Acting Chief, Regional Programs
Coordination Unit
FR Dot. 2013-18836 Filed 8-5-13; 8:45 aml
BILLING CODE 6336-41-P


## DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

Submission for OMB Review;
Comment Request

The Department of Commerce will
submit to the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) for clearance the
following proposal for collection of
information under the provisions of the
Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C.
Chapter 35].

Agency: National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
Title: Alaska American Fisheries Act
(AFA): Permits.

OMB Control Number: 0648-0393.
Form Number(s): NA.

Type of Request: Regular submission
(revision and extension of a current
information collection).

Number of Respondents: 27.
Average Hours per Response:
Application for AFA Permit for
Replacement Vessel, 30 minutes;
Application for AFA Cooperative
Permit, 2 hours; Vessel Contract Fishing
Notification, 4 hours; Approval as an
Entity Eligible to Receive Transferable
Chinook Salmon Prohibited Species
Quota (PSC) Allocation, 8 hours;
Application to Transfer Bering Sea
Chinook Salmon PSC Allocation, 15
minutes.

Burden Hours: 112.

Needs and Uses: This request is for
revision and extension of a currently
approved information collection.

In response to the American Fisheries
Act (AFA). NMFS developed a
management program for Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands Management Area
(BSAI) pollock to include a set of AFA
permanent permits for AFA catcher/
processors, AFA catcher vessels, AFA
inshore processors, and AFA
motherships. All vessels and processors
participating in the non-Community
Development Quota (CDQ) BSAI pollock

fishery are required to have valid AFA
permits on board the vessel or on site
at the processing plant.

With the exceptions of the inshore
vessel cooperatives, replacement vessel,
and inshore vessel contract fishing
applications, the AFA permit program
had a one-time application deadline of
December 1, 2000. All permitted
participants in the AFA pollock fishery
are already established and are issued
with an indefinite expiration date.

In a previous revision to this
collection, a PSC limit of Chinook
salmon was established for the pollock
industry participants in an industry-
developed contractual arrangement,
called an incentive plan agreement
(IPA) that establishes an incentive
program to minimize bycatch at all
levels of Chinook salmon abundance.
NMFS issues transferable Chinook
salmon PSC allocations to eligible
entities representing the catcher/
processor sector, the mothership sector,
inshore cooperatives, and CDQ groups.
Transferable allocations provide the
pollock fleet the flexibility to maximize
the harvest of pollock while maintaining
Chinook salmon bycatch at or below the
PSC limit.

Revision: The notary signature
requirements have been removed from
the Application for Replacement Vessel
and the Application for Inshore Catcher
Vessel Cooperative Permit.

Affected Public: Business or other for-
profit organizations.

Frequency: Annually and on occasion.

Respondent's Obligation: Required to
obtain or retain benefits.

OMB Desk Officer.
OIRA Submission@omb.eop.gov.

Copies of the above information
collection proposal can be obtained by
calling or writing Jennifer Jessup,
Departmental Paperwork Clearance
Officer, (202) 482-0336, Department of
Commerce, Room 6616, 14th and
Constitution Avenue NW., Washington,
DC 20230 (or via the Internet at
Jessup@doc.gov).

Written comments and
recommendations for the proposed
information collection should be sent
within 30 days of publication of this
notice to
OIRA Submission@omb.eop.gov.
