<!-- PageHeader="Automotive suppliers in the evolving transportation ecosystem" -->


# Strategic plays for the future

G
IVEN the transformation of industry struc-
ture and dynamics under way, suppliers
will likely need to consider how well their
portfolio of businesses is positioned to address
the transition. That could require simultaneously
assessing volume and commoditization risks to cer-
tain parts of their portfolio, while thinking through
investments potentially required to monetize new
opportunities in other parts of their portfolio. Key
choices they face could
include where to embrace
new business models and
offerings, whether to in-
novate into new product
segments, and how to cre-
ate and sustain advantage
in the traditional parts
and supply business given
the market's changing
competitive dynamics. In
this section, we offer five
potential plays for differ-
ent types of businesses
suppliers have in their
portfolios. It is important
to realize that these strategic plays are not mutu-
ally exclusive, nor are they "sequential strategies."
Suppliers could make these choices simultaneously,
and different strategies could apply to parts of their
business portfolios.

Winning on cost and
scale could require
a massive footprint
in order to serve
increasingly global
OEM platforms.

Consider figure 3, starting on the x-axis. Supplier
businesses in largely commoditized segments,
where performance innovation in the future is likely
to be minimal, may need to consider different stra-
tegic plays than suppliers that operate in businesses

with sustained, rich, consumer-driven innovation
opportunities. From each starting point, suppliers
can consider whether they want to achieve growth in
the future from continued focus on sales of parts, or
through new business models that potentially take
them into new roles in the mobility ecosystem (mov-
ing upward on the y-axis).

Figure 3 illustrates the five potential strategic plays.
Supplier businesses in more commoditized seg-
ments can make three
potential plays: (a) win
on cost and scale, (b) find
a differentiated niche,
and (c) go beyond the
core of automotive supply
into new business mod-
els. Those starting with
businesses that today are
driven heavily by differ-
entiating performance
innovation for which cus-
tomers are willing to pay
more face a core choice
whether to remain tradi-
tional suppliers and (d)
lead performance innovation or (e) trailblaze into
new mobility business models centered on differen-
tiated offerings.


## Win on cost and scale

Some may choose to remain traditional suppliers
to the major automotive manufacturers. For many
parts and components that face commoditization,

<!-- PageNumber="13" -->
