<!-- PageNumber="352" -->
<!-- PageHeader="IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NANOTECHNOLOGY, VOL. 6, NO. 3, MAY 2007" -->


# A New Capacitorless 1T DRAM Cell: Surrounding Gate MOSFET With Vertical Channel (SGVC Cell)

Hoon Jeong, Ki-Whan Song, Il Han Park, Tae-Hun Kim, Yeun Seung Lee, Seong-Goo Kim, Jun Seo,
Kyoungyong Cho, Kangyoon Lee, Hyungcheol Shin, Member, IEEE, Jong Duk Lee, Member, IEEE, and
Byung-Gook Park, Member, IEEE

Abstract-We propose a surrounding gate MOSFET with
vertical channel (SGVC cell) as a 1T DRAM cell. To confirm the
memory operation of the SGVC cell, we simulated its memory
effect and fabricated the highly scalable SGVC cell. According to
simulation and measurement results, the SGVC cell can operate as
a 1T DRAM having a sufficiently large sensing margin. Also, due
to its vertical channel structure and common source architecture,
it can readily be made into a 4F2 cell array.

Index Terms-Memory effect, 1T DRAM cell, sensing margin,
surrounding gate, vertical channel.


## I. INTRODUCTION

T
O OVERCOME the scalability issues and process
complexity of 1-transistor/1-capacitor DRAM cell, ca-
pacitorless 1-transistor (1T) DRAM cells have been recently
proposed and investigated [1]. The mainstream 1T DRAM
cell is a floating body transistor cell (FBC) which consists of
a MOSFET with its body floating electrically. The FBC is
realized by a MOSFET formed on partially depleted silicon-
on-insulator (PD-SOI). When excess holes exist in the floating
body, the cell state can be defined as "1" (decreased Vth). On
the other hand, when excess holes are swept out of the floating
body through forward bias on the body-drain junction, the cell
state can be defined as "0" (increased Vth). By measuring the
drain current difference between "1" and "0" states of the cell,
we can sense whether the holes are accumulated in the floating
body. Because the floating body is used as the storage node, the
FBC has no complicated storage capacitor. Therefore, the FBC
has a simple process and can have a cell area below 4F2. [2], [3]

In this work, we propose a surrounding gate MOSFET with
vertical channel (SGVC cell) as a 1T DRAM cell. Unlike other
1T DRAM cells which are integrated on SOI substrates, the
SGVC cell can be more cost effective since it can be fabricated
on bulk Si substrates. Also, there is no need for the source con-
tact and line due to the common source structure, which makes

Manuscript received June 18, 2006; revised December 9, 2006. This work
was presented at the 2006 IEEE Silicon Nanoelectronics Workshop. The review
of this paper was arranged by Associate Editor T. Hiramoto.

H. Jeong, I. H. Park, T.-H. Kim, Y. S. Lee, H. Shin, J. D. Lee and B.-G. Park
are with the School of Electrical Engineering, Seoul National University, Seoul
151-742, Korea (e-mail: gbhbt@naver.com).

K.-W. Song is with the ATD Team, Semiconductor R&D Division, Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd., Youngin 449-711, Korea.

S.-G. Kim and K. Lee are with the Technology Development Team, Semicon-
ductor R&D Division, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Youngin 449-711, Korea.

J. Seo and K. Cho is with the Process Development Team, Semiconductor
R&D Division, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Youngin 449-711, Korea

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TNANO.2007.893575


TABLE I
SGVC CELL SIMULATION PARAMETERS

| | Program (1/0) (Impact Ionization) | Read |
| Gate Voltage | 1V | 1V |
| Drain Voltage | 1 V (-1 V) | 0.1 V |
| Source Voltage | 0V | 0V |
| - | - | - |
| L(gate length)=0.1 um /tox (gate oxide)=50 Å | | |
| tsi (Pillar Diameter)= 60 nm | | |
| NS/D (source/drain region doping)=1020 cm-3 (graded doping) | | |
| Nbody (body doping) =1018 cm-3 | | |
| tprogram =10 ns | | |


4F2 structure possible and ultimately leads to superior scala-
bility. The memory operation has been investigated by simu-
lation. Also, we have successfully fabricated a highly scalable
SGVC cell and the memory effect is measured for the first time.


## II. SIMULATION RESULTS

Fig. 1 schematically shows the operation principle of an
SGVC cell [4]. It can be noted that it has a floating body where
holes are accumulated for memory effects. To verify memory
cell operation, 2-D device simulation was performed. We used
ATLAS as a simulator. Excess holes are generated by impact
ionization in this simulation. Simulated parameters are listed in
Table I. The difference in the body potential of each state and
the $I _ { D } - V _ { G }$ characteristics were extracted first, in order to show
the accumulation of holes in the body of the SGVC cell. Fig. 2
shows a comparison of the hole potential between "1" state
and reference state $\left( V _ { \mathrm { g a t e } } = 0 \right. ,$ $V _ { \mathrm { s o u r c e } } = 0$ , $\left. V _ { \mathrm { d r a i n } } = 0 \right)$ . In
the case of state "1," through impact ionization in the high field
region near the drain, excess holes are injected into the body
and then the body potential increases. Fig. 3 shows $I _ { d } - V _ { g }$
characteristics of the SGVC cell. The drain current of "1"
state is larger than that of "0" state. This is due to the increase
of the body potential when holes are accumulated into the
body through writing operation, hence lowering the threshold
voltage, which in turn increases the drain current. Subsequently,
the drain current as a function of time was extracted to show

<!-- PageFooter="1536-125X/$25.00 © 2007 IEEE" -->
