<!-- PageNumber="638" -->
<!-- PageHeader="Eur Spine J (2011) 20:635-639" -->


Table 4 Low back and leg pain
scores 24 months after surgery

| Pain score after surgery | Local bone graft | ICBG | Statistical analysis |
| - | - | - | - |
| Low back pain | | | |
| Visual analog scale (VAS) | 1.8 ± 0.6 | 2.2 ± 0.7 | N.S. |
| Japanese orthopedic association score (JOAS) | 2.4 ± 0.8 | 2.5 ± 0.7 | N.S. |
| Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) | 22 ± 5 | 25 ± 4 | N.S. |
| Leg pain | | | |
| Visual analog scale (VAS) | 1.5 ± 0.6 | 2.0 ± 0.8 | N.S. |
| Japanese orthopedic association score (JOAS) | 2.4 ± 0.5 | 2.3 ± 0.6 | N.S. |


Table 5 Complications

| | Local bone graft | | ICBG | Statistical analysis $\left( P \right)$ |
| Deep Infection | 1 | | 0 | N.S. |
| Hematoma of spinal canal | 0 | | 0 | N.S. |
| Hematoma of iliac crest | 0 | | 0 | N.S. |
| Sensory loss around iliac crest | 0 | | 8 | 0.01 |
| Pain around iliac crest | 0 | | 6 | 0.025 |


different between the two groups $\left( P > 0 . 0 5 \right)$ . There was no
significant difference in VAS score, JOAS, and ODI at final
follow-up (24 months) after surgery among bone union in
the local bone graft group, bone non-union in the local
bone graft group, bone union in the ICBG group, and bone
non-union in the ICBG group $\left( P > 0 . 0 5 \right)$ (Table 4).


# Complications at final follow-up

Table 5 shows complications at final follow-up. There was
a deep infection (surgical site infection) in the local bone
graft group. There was no other complication in the local
bone graft group. However, sensory disturbance around the
iliac crest in eight patients and donor site pain in six
patients were found in the ICBG group.


# Discussion

In the current study, bone union, clinical results, and
complications were examined after single-level postero-
lateral fusion surgery using a local bone graft versus an
ICBG in a prospective randomized study. Rate and average
duration of bone union were not significantly different in
the local bone and ICBG groups. However, prolonged
surgical time and complications such as donor site pain
were observed in the ICBG group.

Some authors have reported complications from har-
vesting ICBG [1, 4, 5, 8, 11]. A consecutive series of 261
patients, whose bone graft harvest was conducted by one
surgeon, was studied [5]. Major complications such as

hematoma, wound infection, reoperation, and chronic
severe pain occurred in 10% of patients [5]. Minor com-
plications such as dysesthesia and superficial infection
occurred in 39% of patients [5]. In the current study, sen-
sory disturbance around the iliac crest in eight patients
(20%) and donor site pain in six patients (15%) were seen
in the ICBG group 2 years after surgery.

Some authors have reported the efficacy of instrumented
posterolateral fusion using ICBG for degenerated spond-
ylolisthesis when compared with decompression only or
non-instrumented posterolateral fusion [2, 12]. Prospective
studies evaluating fusion rate using instrumented postero-
lateral fusion with ICBG showed results from 82 to 95% [2,
12]. There has been one report comparing the clinical and
radiologic outcome of instrumented posterolateral lumbar
fusion using local bone versus an autogenous ICBG using a
retrospective comparative study [9]. Overall fusion rate
was higher in the ICBG group (75%) compared with the
local bone graft group (65%), but not significantly different
[9]. In the current prospective randomized study, fusion
rate using local bone graft and ICBG was consistent with
the previous studies.

Clinical results after surgery were not significantly dif-
ferent between the local bone graft and ICBG groups in the
current study. However, surgical time was significantly
shorter for the local bone graft group compared with the
ICBG group. As seen in the retrospective comparison
between the two groups [9], there was no significant dif-
ference in overall clinical outcome between the two
groups. However, blood loss and hospital stay were sig-
nificantly less for the local graft bone group compared with

<!-- PageFooter="Springer" -->